# homework3


**Programmer:** Yixi Xu

**Programming Language:** Bash, Python

**Date:** 10/4/2023

---

## Description

This repository is designed to pratice the following:
- **1:** perform data handling and processing using numpy and pandas
- **2:** demonstrate data visualization skills in using matprotlib and seaborn.

It includes: python script homework3.py that will show the answers of homework questions.

---
## Required files:

### `Kaggle Titanic disaster data`
- **Description:** Titiantic dataset include train,test, and supplementary data.
- **Link:** [https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/dbdmobile/tita111Links]

(You can directly download with the code in homework3.py with your personal .jason information)

### `README.md`
- **Description:** This readme file providing information about the script.
### `homework3.py`
- **Description:** An python script .
- **Usage:** practice python basic data handling & analysis and EDA exploration
---

## Requirements
- **Python:** The script is written in Python to perform basic python commands.

## Execution:
1. **Clone the Repository:**  
  ```bash
git clone https://github.iu.edu/xuyix/homework3.git
  ```

2. **Run Python script:**
  ```bash
python homework3.py
  ```


## Output files:

No file will be created. 

The results of the python includes:

1. Three numpy arrays generated by first 20 fibonacci numbers, and their qutioents and difference of quotients 
2. A plot that shows the convergence above three arrays
3. A histogram showing the distribution of age of people on the Titanic and a histogram showing the distribution of age of people on the Titanic segregated by survivalship.
4. A bar chart showing the percentages of who survived on the Titanic and another bar chart showing the percentages of who survived on the Titanic segregated by sex.
5. A boxplot showing the distribution of who survived on the Titanic vs their passenger class and another boxplot showing the distribution of who survived on the Titanic vs their passenger class segregated by sex.

